= Isaac - the smallish DSL for writing IRC bots

== Features
* Wraps parsing of incoming messages and raw IRC commands in simple constructs.
* Hides all the ugly regular expressions of matching IRC commands. Leaves only the essentials for you to match.
* Takes care of dull stuff such as replying to PING-messages and avoiding excess flood.
* Uses EventMachine

== Getting started
An Isaac-bot needs a few basics:
  require 'isaac'
  configure do |c|
    c.nick    = "AwesomeBot"
    c.server  = "irc.freenode.net"
    c.port    = 6667
  end
That's it. Run <tt>ruby bot.rb</tt> and it will connect to the specified server.

=== Connecting
After the bot has connected to the IRC server you might want to join some channels:
  on :connect do
    join "#awesome_channel", "#WesternBar"
  end

=== Responding to messages
Joining a channel and sitting idle is not much fun. Let's repeat everything being said in these channels:

  on :channel do
    msg channel, message
  end

Notice the +channel+ and +message+ variables. Additionally +nick+ and +match+ is
available for channel-events. +nick+ being the sender of the message, +match+
being an array of captures from the regular expression:

  on :channel, /^quote this: (.*)/ do
    msg channel, "Quote: '#{match[0]}' by #{nick}"
  end

If you want to match private messages use the +on :private+ event:

  on :private, /^login (\S+) (\S+)/ do
    username = match[0]
    password = match[1]
    # do something to authorize or whatevz.
    msg nick, "Login successful!"
  end

You can also pass the RegExp captures as block arguments:
    
  on :channel, /catch this: (.*) and this: (.*)/ do |first, last|
    # `first` will contain the first regexp capture,
    # `last` the second.
  end

=== Defining helpers
Helpers should not be defined in the top level, but instead using the +helpers+-constructor:

  helpers do
    def rain_check(meeting)
      msg nick, "Can I have a rain check on the #{meeting}?"
    end
  end

  on :private, /date/ do
    rain_check("romantic date")
  end

=== Errors, errors, errors
Errors, as specified by RFC 1459, can be reacted upon as well. If you e.g. try to send a message to a non-existant nick you will get error 401: "No such nick/channel".

  on :error, 401 do
    # Do something.
  end

Available variables: +nick+ and +channel+.

=== Non-top level bots
You might not want to pollute the top-level namespace with Isaac
helpers, or you want to define multiple bots. This can be done
easily, by requiring `isaac/bot` instead of `isaac`:

  require 'isaac/bot'

  bot = Isaac::Bot.new do
    configure do
      …
    end

    on :channel do
      …
    end
  end

  EventMachine.run {bot.start}
  
== Contribute
The source is hosted at GitHub: http://github.com/ichverstehe/isaac

== License
Copyright (c) 2009 Harry Vangberg <harry@vangberg.name>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
